---
title: A Confession
tags: confession, private, hidden
hidden: true
---

This is a confession after a difficult few days for me. If you've found this
post it's likely because I (or someone else) gave you the link, or you were
browsing (or forking) my github repository. Though I don't mind you reading
this post, this is a hidden post on my blog, and I would appreciate it if you
kept it's contents confidential to yourself. Before you read, you should know
that this post is in large part intended for myself as a way to relieve stress
and anxiety as well as a way to vent.

Today is Christmas Day. Today is also one of a few days that I am spending that
I am spending back home with family - I travelled by plane for 10 hours to get
here - which is something that doesn't happen too often for me. I also gave and
received gifts today. Generally all of these things are things that most people
would be very happy about. Not me. I hate Christmas. Not necessarily the idea
of Christmas persay, but moreso, I just hate celebrating it myself.

I currently live and work in San Francisco. My family is from, and still lives
in Ottawa Canada. Over the past 6 and a half years, I haven't spent much time
at home. That has been by design - especially during the holidays. I don't like
drama at all. My family has had some rough times in the last 10-12 years. I've
committed to myself to not letting it define my state of mind and who I am.
My family very often, and very frequently fights. This is the kind of drama I
do not like. Now, I used to have the belief that they would grow out of it, or
that they could come together and be civil during the times that I visited.
Effectively, every time I went home, it boiled down to me having hope that it
would be different this time, and that I would get a chance to actually
consider the trip a vacation, and a good time.

In the 6 years, every single trip home that I have made, for any purpose,
whether for the birth my niece, a casual trip home, preparing to move out to
SF, or holidays such as Christmas, has resulted in me regretting the trip, and
leaving more stressed that I was when I arrived. This isn't to say that they
haven't tried (even tried really hard) to have a drama-free time while I was
there, it just means they haven't succeeded. And it has been taking it's toll
on my health and state of mind. As hard as the decision is for me to make,
after 6 years of making trips home, and a grand total of a decade worth of
drama filled holidays, I'm no longer willing to put my personal health and
state of mind at risk.

For me, celebrating Christmas is just not worth the stress of flying home,
going out to get gifts, and spend time with family when it always ends up
adding more stress because of family drama. So my confession is this - this is
the last time that I travel home to see family.

Writing this has helped me immensely in coping with the stress and anxiety I've
been dealing with. Thanks for reading. And as mentioned above, please keep this
confession to yourself.


