---
title: The American Presidential Elections
tags: president, usa, election, trump, clinton
---

What a topic... As I'm writing this, I don't even know where to start, or what
I'll even cover/discuss. This current presidential election cycle in the US has
staggering repercussions regardless of who winds up actually winning.

I am a Canadian citizen, which means that I do not possess the right to vote in
this election. This being said, I know many people who are eligible to vote,
and I must say that I am very very happy that a large majority of those people
have either already voted, or are going to do so tomorrow. It may sound harsh,
but I believe that if you are eligible to vote, and DO NOT do so, then you
entirely forfeit your right to be discontent with the result or repercussions
of that election. Given what's at stake in this one, please don't make the
mistake of assuming that your vote won't count or that it doesn't matter.
There are MANY MANY more things at stake tomorrow than who becomes the next
POTUS.

Even still (and possibly rightly so), all of the media coverage, and a majority
of the concern and focus of the general populace is centered on the two
candidates for the presidency. This election has been characterized as choosing
the lesser of two evils in many cases. The political divide between the two
major parties has grown considerably in the past few decades, along with the
animosity between voters and politicians alike. Both candidates in this
election have been described as downright dangerous for this country by their
opposition.

Clinton is seen as dishonest, corrupt, and purchased by corporations and
moneyed interests on Wall Street. Trump is seen as racist, mysogynistic,
ill-tempered and inexperienced. The fact is, even without addressing the
shortcomings of the individual candidates or their policies, there are many
problems with this election and elections in the US in general. Specifically,
I want to point out that this election has been progressing for about 2 years
now, and has cost a combined price tag of approximately 2 billion dollars. It's
also important to note this only accounts for the campaigns of the two major
party candidates, and does not include costs for primary election candidates
who dropped out or lost, and does not include the campaign costs of third party
candidates.

In contrast, the most recent Canadian federal election concluded in a total of
78 days, or about 11 weeks. The total combined cost, even if you include fringe
parties like the New Democratic Party, Green Party and Bloc Quebecois totalled
at less than 300 million dollars. This number isn't specifically skewed towards
the Liberal or Conservative parties either - there is a spending limit imposed
on parties during federal elections in Canada. During the most recent election
cycle, this limit was just under $55M each for the NDP, Green Party, Liberal
Party and Conservative Party, with the cap for the Bloc Quebecois being around
$14M (because they only really have a presence in the province of Quebec, which
is as a result of their own doing). This is all without even pointing out that
the exchange rate at the time was about $1.30 Canadian to the US dollar,
bringing the overall cost of the Canadian federal election down to about $231
USD.

Canada isn't the only country that has shorter election cycle, or mandated
election spending limits. For example Belgium, France, Ireland, Japan,
Italy, New Zealand, the UK and many other countries all have mandated spending
limits for national elections. With regards to the length of the election cycle
you need only look at Canada, the UK, the Netherlands or Italy again - these
countries all have election policies and rules designed to discourage lengthy
elections, either by directly limiting the length (British elections are
strictly limited to 17 working days) or by making it difficult and inefficient
to have a lengthy cycle (Canada has a base spending limit which increases
along with the length of the election cycle, but at a rate slower than is
necessary to keep the campaign going).

To me, what's even more absurd is that this whole process will begin again in
about 24 months. Regardless of the winner of this election, how is the
President of the United States supposed to focus on the matters most important
to the country if they have to spend half of their first term in office
campaigning to keep their job? The entirety of this upcoming campaign cycle
will need to be devoted to being re-elected if this election is any indication
of what's to come. Just by itself, this means that their focus will, at best,
be divided on important issues, and their performance during those last 2 years
can be called into question and used as reasoning as to why they are not a good
fit to serve as POTUS. They lose if they don't campaign, but their performance
is likely to drop and be used as an example of why they shouldn't be elected if
they do campaign.

I'm not going to, but I could easily go into more technical and messed up
election topics such as Gerrymandering, the Electoral College, voter
disenfranchisement and suppression, all of which make the state of the
democracy in the US worse.

There are many things in the US that are great - I wouldn't be living here if I
thought otherwise. And the state of democracy around the world isn't perfect
anywhere else, but in many cases it's pretty easy to argue that it's better
than here in America. I think it might be time to re-evaluate what it is we are
trying to accomplish with the elections, and compare that with how the system
actually works. I have a feeling you either are already aware of many of these
absurdities, or you are about to be enlightened by how complex and messed up
some of them are once you put a little bit of research into them.

What are your thoughts? What should we focus on first? Do you disagree that the
system has many inherently outdated or broken facets (I'd love to hear a
dissenting opinion)? Please leave a comment and start a discussion! Thanks for
reading.