---
title: The F-Word
tags: f-word, taboo, fun, first, friends
---

I don't mean the f-word you probably think I mean. Over the last 2 years, I've
immersed myself in a community that has a different f-word that is taboo per
se. Within this community, saying it bears a hefty price, and people often
change the way they speak simply to avoid saying it. But even with all of this,
it isn't a bad word. Actually, it's often a means for gathering and celebrating
as a community or group. The word I'm talking about is 'first'.

In the skydiving community, the word 'first' implies a milestone of sorts - new
gear, first time accomplishing a maneuver, or doing a type of jump. Simply
uttering it will be gladly met by jeers of 'BEER!' from everyone else around
you. Almost everywhere you go, skydivers live by the Beer Rules, which state
that any new milestone deserves a celebration with a case of beer purchased by
whomever accomplished it. This ranges from those mentioned above, to any jump
number ending in '00', to new licenses and ratings, and certain minor
violations such as crossing the beer line on landing.

It serves multiple purposes too. It's an additional reason to gather and
celebrate - and trust me, skydivers love celebrating. It's also a reason to get
together and share stories, and often, it's those stories where we learn from
the experiences of our fellow jumpers. We share and teach and experience things
as we grow closer as a community.

So next time you do something for the 'first' time, no matter how small it
might seem to you, take the opportunity to relish in it and celebrate with
friends. I'll gladly share a beer with you. Now go out there do something new!