---
title: Online Dating Profile Tips
tags: cmb, dating, online dating, tinder
---

I recently had a discussion with some friends about online dating, and what
some people use for profile photos, specifically, why certain people's profiles
were simply insufficient, or boring/uninteresting/unimpressive. Since then,
I've been paying significantly more attention to the substance of individual
photos on profiles I encounter, and noticing a lot of different things.

Obviously, these are nothing but my opinions, and I don't exactly have any
major level of success with any of online dating by any means. Something else
to note is that depending on what you are looking for, your level of importance
for different things in a profile may change and vary. I would generally say
that these suggestions are moreso geared towards people looking for some form
of extended dating or relationship, and those looking for anything else might
not necessarily gain as much benefit out of these. I'll start by mentioning
some pet peeves I have, both with photos and with profile content, and ways
that, in my opinion, you can improve the quality of your profile.

### I don't want to have to guess which person in the picture is you

It's okay to have 1, maybe 2 photos of you with more than one other person in
the picture, but in general, the large majority (read that as 75% or more) of
the photos on your profile should be strictly of you. I'm really glad you have
friends, but I am not looking at your pictures to determine if you have
friends. I am looking at them to determine if I am attracted to you and to get
a glimpse into important or exciting parts of your life. I don't want to have
to scroll through 5 photos just to find one of just you, and then compare that
against every other photo to figure out which one is you. Also, the first
picture on your profile should not ever be anything other than just you.

### Don't use the same pose in every picture

You may have 'a good side' for pictures, or you may simply have a subconscious 
tendency to always make the same pose when you prepare for a picture. Either
way, when you are choosing your dating profile pictures, make an effort to show
yourself doing a variety of things and/or in a variety of poses. Otherwise, all
those pictures are redundant and effectively useless to me. Regardless of
whether you are using these dating apps to find someone or for no other reason
than to give yourself a big ego boost (by the way, if this is you, I hate you),
the purpose of your profile is to impress me enough to get me to indicate
interest. Redundant pictures are boring, and won't get you anywhere.

### I'm not dating the landscape

Everybody loves to post pictures of their travels. I'm guilty of this as much
as the next person. Travel is exciting, and showing people photos of you in
places around the world that you've visited is a great way to show people that
it is an important thing to you. That being said, photos in which you are
barely visible, or I can't see your face (e.g. you are facing away from the
camera) aren't helpful. I'm glad you traveled there, but many people have
photos of themselves traveling, and not being able to see your face makes the
picture of no interest to me for the purpose of determining whether or not to
like/message you. I'm happy to take a look at those later if/when you want to
talk about and discuss your travels, but for the dating profile, let's leave it
to pictures where I can actually see you and your face.

### Tell me about your hobbies and interests

This can be done either via your pictures, your profile content, or both. This
tip is also especially important for girls to do if they are looking for an
introductory message that consists of more than "Hi, how has your week been?"
or other similarly boring or unimaginative opening messages. I'm not a mind
reader, so unless you can show me something in your profile that intrigues me
enough to warrant more details, I won't know where to start, and in general, I
will probably just not message you because I hate those awkward openers as much
as you do. Including just one or two things isn't sufficient either. If you
tell me you enjoy walks in the park, and sitting at coffee shops, then I don't
really have anything compelling to ask about. Am I supposed to ask you which
parks or coffee shops are your favorite? I'm cringing right now just thinking
about asking that as an opener. Make sure your profile includes something at
least slightly unique.

### Make sure your profile isn't identical to everyone else I come across

This one takes a little work, and it's even something I haven't done much of
yet, but I definitely plan on giving it a go. Do a little research into your
competition, and make sure you don't repeat the same thing everyone else has on
their profile. Get a friend who is in the demographic you are trying to match
with, and use their profile to take a look at the people you are competing
against. It's absolutely unbelievable the number of profiles I come across that
include something along the lines of "I appreciate when my date makes me laugh"
or "Looking for someone who enjoys staying in as much as they like going out".
(Note: These examples are somewhat specific to Coffee Meets Bagel in the
wording, but my point still stands). When I come across a profile that has one
of these extremely overused lines, the first thought that comes to my head is
"Great, so you're generic. What else?". By contrast, a profile that includes
something unique (even if slightly controversial) usually elicits a response
like "At least you are your own person and own it" at worst, and at best
generates intrigue and interest.

In short, make your profile about the many different and interesting aspects of
you. What do you REALLY like doing? What are you REALLY looking for? How or why
are you more interesting, and more of a catch than the next person I'll come
across? I'm not perfect, and my profile is far from it as well, but let's try
to move away for the cookie cutter profiles that make everyone seem the same...

What online dating profile tips or pet peeves do you have? What is it in a
profile that catches and keeps your attention and interest? I'd love to hear
some of your thoughts (and god knows I could probably benefit from
implementing some of them). Thanks for reading!