---
title: A Look Back on 2016
tags: accountability, goals, review, improvement
---

I felt that I should, similar to what I did this time last year, review how I
did when it comes to accomplishing what I set out for myself for 2016. You can
see what I outlined for myself last January
[here](http://pcockwell.github.io/blog/2016/01/23/goals-for-2016.html).

The three categories in which I set targets for myself are as follows:

> Goal – Something I want to accomplish that is measurable and relatively
> continual. eg. exercise X times per week or decrease sugar consumption by X
> percent. These are often habits I want to build into my life an my hope is
> that by doing it for a year, it will stick.
>
> &nbsp;
>
> Theme – A central topic for the year – something I can spend time thinking
> about and take a few concrete efforts towards. eg. build community or rethink
> what health means. These are often abstract ideas that are hard to measure
> but important to spend time focusing on.
>
> &nbsp;
>
> Challenge – Something I want to conquer. Crossing an item off my bucket list.
> eg. climb Mr. Everest or learn to tight rope walk. These are binary, I either
> complete them or I don’t.

### 2016 Goal: Become Conversational in German

I had a similar goal in 2015 of becoming fluent in 2 new languages. My score on
that goal for 2015 was a measly 2/10. I decided learning languages was still
something interesting to me, but that I would try to limit the breadth of what
I was trying to accomplish and allow for more focus. To further entice myself,
I committed to going to Germany and/or Austria at the end of January 2017.

#### Score: 2/10

Unfortunately, once again, this past year I didn't really apply the focus I
needed to on this goal. Until re-reading my post just recently, I had entirely
forgotten my commitment to travel, and despite have done a few stints where
I was pretty rigorous and regular in trying to catch back up on my German or
learn more, I can't say that I've gone any further than I did in 2015. I might
revisit this in another way another year, but for now I think I need a new
strategy.

### 2016 Theme: Have More Fun

A lot was going on in my life when I chose this as my theme for the year. I had
just started doing regular therapy, had recently lost a friend, and overall was
not in a very happy place in my life in many respects. I chose this because, as
with the decision to go to therapy, I felt it was important to focus on my
personal well being in a much more deliberate manner.

The specific manner in which I tried to implement this theme was that whenever
I was going to do something, I would honestly ask myself 'Do I really WANT to
do this?' and then in cases where the answer was no, unless I otherwise had a
strict obligation to do it, I would do something else that I would otherwise
want to do.

#### Score: 11/10

I was initially worried about this theme not really meaning much or having a
very minimal effect on my day to day. I was also a little worried I would have
trouble quantifying how I did with incorporating this theme in my life.

I can say, with complete beaming certainty, that my life has changed completely
due to this theme. Despite 2016 being a very tough year in many respects with
regards how the world has changed, it has been an extremely positive and growth
inducing period in my personal life. I could go on and on about each of the
individual ways this theme has positively contributed to my happiness, but I
feel like that's a little beyond the scope of this post. If you are interested,
feel free to read this
[post](http://pcockwell.github.io/blog/2016/10/13/a-sharp-uptick-in-happiness.html),
or simply ask me in the comments or personally via social media or otherwise.

If you need a drastic change in your life and want to feel more in control of
your life and happiness, I strongly suggest you take up this theme.

### 2016 Challenge: Visit 12 New Dropzones

I was hoping to average a visit to a dropzone that I had not yet frequented
once every month. I knew going into this that it would be pretty easy to get a
part of the way there, but that the last few was where things would get
challenging.

#### Score: 8/10

* Skydive Arizona
* Skydive Davis
* San Jose Skydiving Center
* Parachute School of Toronto
* Skydive Toronto
* Skydive Taft
* Skydive Perris
* Skydive Elsinore
* Vegas Extreme Skydiving

I managed to go to 9 new dropzones out of the intended 12. Until just now, I
actually thought I had done better. I decided to give myself a little bit of an
extra boost in score (1/2 of a point out of 10) because I ended up doing
something I had not accounted for or expected - I spent 1.5 hours over 3
different sessions in the wind tunnel working on my skills. While this doesn't
technically count towards the challenge, I felt it was in line with the spirit
and purpose of the challenge which was to improve my skydiving skills and try
them in new environments. Despite not reaching the desired total, I'm
definitely satisfied with the result.

### Recap And Review

#### Score: 21/30

I almost doubled up on my score from last year! I'm quite satisfied with the
improvement, but there is clearly room to keep working on this. I can't
truthfully tell myself that the year has been a complete success unless I can
reach a score of 27 or more. The question becomes, where do I go from here?
What have I learned year over year that I can take into 2017 and hopefully set
better goals that remain challenging and rewarding, but that I'm much more
likely to succeed at?

I have no doubt the reason I succeeded so evidently with my theme for the year
was because it was very clear from the beginning that it's primary and
immediate purpose and benefit was to improve my happiness and quality of life.
It became all about being realistic with what I wanted, and upon seeing how
quickly it was allowing me to be happier on a daily basis, it was obvious that
continuing to do this would only accelerate it further. Similar to my
challenge last year, even though it wasn't the easiest thing to do, especially
initially, this was a very simple concept and implementation. Clearly,
simplicity is a key, recurring factor to success here.

When it comes to the challenge of going to a dropzone a month, I would say that
I was also pretty successful. I didn't necessarily hit it out of the park, but
the definition was clear, I knew what was feasible and where the limitations
would likely be, and I managed to do pretty well. There were a few nearby
dropzones I could have visited to add to that tally and did not (Tracy, Byron,
and Monterey Bay). Whether due to comfort at my home DZ, laziness, lack of
time, or one of many other possible reasons, I didn't complete the challenge as
fully as I could have. Despite this, I am very happy with the result and have
learned more than I could ever have hoped for (both in terms of skydiving
skills and in terms of what things I find exciting and enjoyable about
skydiving).

Last year I felt like I had set the bar for learning languages in 2015 a little
higher than I could handle. I reflected that this, as well as consistency and
purpose had in large part combined for the poor result I had with the goal.
While I do think consistency and purpose had a part in things again this year,
I can in no way say that the bar was too high on this goal. The goal was set at
a level that was achievable, and open to interpretation. I had difficulties
with consistency again, though even that isn't all that great of an excuse.
I've had a 20 - 30 minute commute to and from work every week day morning and
evening since June. For a while I did pretty good, but even that didn't keep up
for too long. As much as I'd love to learn a new language I think something
that's important to reflect on is why I was getting bored with learning the
languages in the first place. The actual learning process was very enjoyable
and rewarding, so that leaves me to thinking the change needs to come in HOW
I'm learning these languages. I think Duolingo is a great tool for this, but I
just don't think it lines up all that great with the way I learn - at least not
when it's the only thing I'm doing to learn. I don't think I'll explicitly set
another goal like this in 2017, but I will probably try different ways of
learning German (and possibly other languages).

Similar to last year, and especially after seeing the improvements I've made, I
am 100% going to have to stand by this method of setting a goal, theme and
challenge for the year in comparison with resolutions. They've simply worked
much better and been much more top of mind. I'll be posting again soon with
what I'm setting out for 2017 on this topic. Have you set any goals or
resolutions for the new year? Do you have any big plans, or any hopes/fears for
2017? I would love to hear from you in the comments.
